# Lecture 15: Central Limit TheoremTitle
* __Note__: 

Resources for this lecture:
* Jar of beans for CLT Calculation
Remember:

## Point estimates
All the measures we have made so far are known as __point estimates__. They are measurements from a sample that we use to estimate the population.

| Measure    | Sample    | Population |
| :--------- | :-------: | :--------: |
| Mean       | $\bar{x}$ | $\mu$      |
| Variance   | $s^2$     | $\sigma$   |
| Proportion | $\hat{p}$ | $p$        |

However, these are not perfect estimates. Each sample will give a slightly different result. The __sampling error__ describes how much an estimate will tend to vary from one sample to the next.

### Variability and Sampling Distributions

> Simulation: 2040_15_CLT.ipynb

## Central Limit Therem
If the sample is large enough, then a sampling distribution begins to approximate a Normal Distribution. Knowing a Normal Distribution, we can use the variability of our samples to approximate the true value of the population.

$$\mu_{\hat{p}} = p \qquad SE_{\hat{p}}=\sqrt{\frac{p(1-p)}{n}}$$

(The Standard Error is going the represent the standard deviation of this distributions of samples.)
    * What happens to the SE if the sample is larger?

### How big is large enough?
When dealing with proportions (that is, success-failure conditions), large enough is when __both__ of the following conditions are satisfied:
$$np\ge 10 \qquad n(1-p) \ge 10$$

(This number isn't set, but it is pretty common.)

## But we don't know $p$ yet...
$$SE_{\hat{p}} = \sqrt{\frac{p(1-p)}{n}} \approx \sqrt{\frac{\hat{p}(1-\hat{p})}{n}}$$

-----
# Homework
## Reading
* 5.1 Point estimates and sampling variability

## Exercises
1. Exercise 5.1 from section 5.1 exercises
2. Exercise 5.3 from section 5.1 exercises
3. Exercise 5.4 from section 5.1 exercises
4. Exercise 5.6 from section 5.1 exercises